Now that you understand your personal balance sheet.
And now that you understand your personal income statement
and saving more money, let's make a budget now.
Let's make a budget so you can get closer to reaching
your financial goals.
Now although Quicken can help you create your own budget
per these images I wanna us to create your budget
using your complete personal finance Excel dashboard.
I want us to do this together in the next exercise so
we can understand how we can achieve our financial goals.
So we can save for retirement, save for university
for the kids, save for a vacation home,
save for a second or third home, etcetera.
We've already done enough exercises
that we now understand the time value of money.
And what the future value of our savings can be worth
given the awesome power of compound interest.
But before we get started with our budget exercise
in the next lesson if you don't have much in savings
or you can't afford to saving anything yet
please don't worry.
Don't worry but please promise me one thing,
promise me the second you get a raise
please immediately increase how much money
is (snaps) automatically removed from your paycheck
or a bank account and placed into your investment
or retirement accounts.
Especially since as we know
you can get amazing tax rates
or tax breaks I should say
by investing in your retirement accounts.
And not doing so is really like
throwing money in the garbage.
When you get that next raise
I want you to move the money immediately
so it's out of sight and out of mind.
Like if you have candy or chips at your house
you'll be tempted to eat them.
We don't wanna eat into your savings.
And we just wanna make sure that your money's out of sight
and out of mind.
All successful companies have budgets.
And these companies are successful because they stay
within their budgets.
And they see their earnings per share increase over time
because of this, they stay in their budgets
which investors love to see.
And so similarly together we will create a monthly budget
for you in the next lesson.